Hello, my name is Mostafa Mahmoud (aka moste00 @ github, kotlinenjoyer @ mattermost), I'm a Computer Engineer, graduated from Cairo University, Faculty of Engineering. I'm passionate about anything and everything involving metaprogramming, macro systems, compilers, developer tools, IDEs, debuggers, virtualization  & virtual machines, operating systems, computer architectures and hardware, plugin systems, and many other things! If I were to summarize my interests in one sentence, I would say that I like programs that "manage" or "provide services for" other programs, programs that serve as the bottom layers in a software stack, programs that manipulate other programs as data, and programs that other programs "run on top of", so to speak.

I started to contribute to Rizin in early March 2024. My first PR was [a cleaning up of and removing dead code in the source for the database SDB](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/pull/4328), then I cleaned up the code for the Z80 assembler by [removing all global variables and moving them into a state struct](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/pull/4343). The great people at Rizin were always helpful at every step, first providing tips on how to build Rizin and set up its dev env and how to navigate its large codebase, and providing helpful code reviews when I had the PRs ready.

On advice from my mentor in Rizin, I started to write a RzIL lifter for the very simple architecture MSP430, the purpose being to get used to write IL lifters and encountering the challenges that people typically face while writing one. The incomplete lifter is [here](https://github.com/rizinorg/rizin/pull/4379), it's not finished as of the time of writing this but I hope it will soon be! 

The MSP430 PR is itself just a micro-task and preparation for the main task I will do in GSOC2024: Lifting the RISC-V architecture's assembly into the RzIL intermediate language, a 350-hours project. I have set the MVP for this project at the point where the RV-32I and the RV-32F (Integer instructions and Floating-Point instructions, respectively) subsets of RISC-V are both lifted and tested using trace-testing, but see my [proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1e__G28P2V8t3FKG_ZbJPDCFHfo2lMHMbvWeRl3zJ-0A/edit?usp=sharing) for stretch goals as well as more details, such as the proposed road plan.

In conclusion, by the end of my GSOC project in approximately October or early November of 2024, I hope that Rizin would have the capability to transform into RzIL the assembly for 2 new architectures, the MSP430 and the RISC-V instruction set. I hope that my code implementing this is clean, efficient, and easy to reason about and maintain. I hope that I get smarter and more knowledable about Computer Architectures and IL compilers as a result of working with all the smart and knowledgable people around me in Rizin, and I hope Rizin continues to attract contributors interested in low-level programming and reverse-engineering dev tools.

It's always a pleasure to participate in GSOC, I look forward to a summer full of hacking :'). 